.Dd December 16, 2022
.Dt MSTDN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mstdn
.Nd send a mastodon update
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hiv
.Op Fl m Ar media
.Op Fl s Ar server
.Op Fl t Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a very simple tool to send a Mastodon update to the
given server - nothing else.
The message to send is read from STDIN; the account to
post as is defined via the access token found in the
file passed to
.Fl t .
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width s_server_
.It Fl h
Print a short usage statement and exit.
.It Fl i
Print the resulting message ID.
.It Fl m Ar media
Upload and attach the given media (picture or video).
.It Fl s Ar server
Post the update to this Mastodon server.
Default: mstdn.social
.It Fl t Ar file
Read the access token from this file.
Default: ~/.mstdn/<server>
.It Fl v
Be verbose.
Can be specified multiple times to increase verbosity.
.El
.Sh AUTHORIZATION
In order to use
.Nm ,
you will need to get an access token and place it into
a file.
The token can be retrieved by going to
Preferences->Development on your Mastodon server and
adding a "new application".
The application will only need the "write:media" and
"write:statuses" privileges.
After creating the application, you should be able to
copy the "access token" from the application details.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following examples illustrate common usage of this
tool.
.Pp
To send a simple message to the default Mastodon
server reading the access token from the default
location:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
echo "I can't believe I used the word 'toot'." | mstdn
.Ed
.Pp
To post the contents of the file 'msg' together with
the image 'file.jp' to the 'chaos.social' instance
using an access token from the file '~/mytoken':
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mstdn -t ~/mytoken -s chaos.social -m file.jpg <msg
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The following environment variables affect the
execution of this tool:
.Bl -tag -width MASTODON_SERVER
.It Ev MASTODON_SERVER
The Mastodon server to post the update to.
The
.Fl s
flag overrides this value.
.It Ev TOKEN_FILE
The file to read the access token from.
The
.Fl t
flag overrides this value.
If not specified, then this value defaults to the
pathname
.Dv ~/.mstdn/${MASTODON_SERVER} .
.El
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@netmeister.org
in December 2022.
.Sh BUGS
Please file bugs and feature requests via GitHub pull
requests and issues or by emailing the author.
